World Bank-Light Every Night

                                  -----Open Nighttime lights

Wenjie Tong
1332679


Contents:

Overview

World Bank Light Every Night is a comprehensive data repository of light satellite images collected at night by two sensors in the past 30 years:
	The Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) Operational Line Scanning System (OLS), with data from 1992 to 2017.
	The data of the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) Day and Night Band (DNB) is in 2012-2020.
Both DMSP-OLS and VIIRS-DNB sensors capture various low-light emission sources from the earth as light data. The light source includes brightness data generated by various human activities, such as city lights, gas flares, fishing boats and agricultural fires, and also captures other natural lighting phenomena at night, such as aurora.
The World Bank, in collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the University of Michigan, released this repository for analysis. The basic data comes from NOAA National Center for Environmental Information (NCEI) archives.
Additional processing from the University of Michigan supports access in cloud-optimized GeoTIFF format (COG) and searches using the Spatio-temporal Asset Catalog (STAC) standard. And these standards are part of a growing ecosystem of analytics-ready data that is improving access to geospatial data sets, enabling a wider audience to easily discover, process, and analyze geospatial data. Our project data will also use cloud-optimized GeoTIFF format (COG) and STAC standards to implement network-level applications.

In this web-based application will include *** parts, for instance: the remote sensing, nighttime light data, and data overview. The remote sensing demonstrate the different sensors,like passive and active sensors and this introduction is giving a general concept to people to understand how remote sensors work and how the data be transmited during the long period. Moreover, the spatial, spectral and temporal resolutions are the vital elements for data collections and using. Next, the nighttime light data have some sub-points, the remotely sensed data of nighttime lights,DMSP-OLS and VIIRS-DNB (the follow-on sensor for DMSP-OLS).

Remote sensing
1.	Remote sensing
1.1	passive and active sensors
1.2	passive remote sensing
1.3	active remote sensing

2.	Spatial, spectral and temporal resolutions in remote sensing
2.1	Spatial resolution
2.2	Spectral resolution
2.3	Temporal resolution

Nighttime light data
1.	Remotely sensed data of nighttime lights
2.	DMSP-OLS
3.	VIIRS-DNB: the follow-on sensor for the DMSP-OLS

Data Overview
1.	Data structure
2.	The world Bank’s “Light Every Night” dataset
3.	GeoTIFFs
4.	Cloud-optimized geoTIFFs (COGs)
5.	Spatial Temporal Asset Catalog (STAC) standard



